We are basically moving on to the exercise
part, where we've talked about how to
actually use title within the options
API for its core functionality.
And so your exercise now is to take
the dish page that we see here, and
now you're gonna reapply all that stuff,
right?
You got to make sure convert it
to TypeScript, then go ahead and
type the data.
Go ahead and type the computer
properties and the methods,
whatever makes sense to you.
So, we have our dishes page, and actually
let me go ahead, and before I forget,
let me switch the branch to finish so
that we add the solution as we go.
So inside of here, first things first,
we wanna use TypeScript.
So let's go ahead and
make it language TypeScript.
And then once again in for
define component,
I'm starting to use autocomplete.
Now that you all know where
these things are coming from, so
the fine component goes here.
Let's collapse that, collapse that,
collapse that much better, less scrolling.
Okay, so the next thing we need
to do now is we need to define
the shape of the data, so
we can say Type DataShape.
And we know filter text
is gonna be a string.
And then we want the dish list
to be of an array of dish,
but dish does not exist yet.
So I'm gonna go ahead over to discard
over here, and I'm gonna grab this here.
We're gonna open up pipes, and then we're
gonna drop a suit alphabetical order just
to make it a little bit easier to follow.
Export type fish now that we have this
exported we can now import the type dish.
There you go from types perfect
everything works as expected,
then over here,
we'll do the same thing import type dish.
Looks like it's not giving me that,
that's fine, and then there we go.
So we have our dish.
So we've modularized our dish type,
and now we're using two files.
And finally,
we have one more thing which is I believe
it's show [SOUND] new form, form, boolean.
Great!
So now what are we doing?
We're returning, we're saying that
this is going to be the data shape.
And so if we take a look now,
this is good.
We have a bunch of dishes.
This list is an array of dishes.
This is fantastic.
And so I guess something actually probably
worth mentioning is you might have noticed
that I tend to notice my arrays with
like the thing list rather than just
the plural.
So instead of dishes or restaurants I
found that one-off errors when it comes to
typing those things that happens a lot.
So dishList makes it really explicit you
tend to autocomplete a little bit better,
and you won't dismiss like
the one letter when typing.
So that's just a little convention that
I do to kind of offset some of that.
Okay, so then inside a computer let's go
and do some things here we got an array of
dishes because that's
what we're filtering for.
And then just for the sake of documenting
a little bit more, the argument is a dish
type which is great, and
number of dishes is gonna be a number.
We don't want that to ever change,
cuz that's what we're actually rendering
when we're counting the thing.
And then inside of methods, both of our
payloads are just gonna be the dish type,
cuz that's what we're doing, right?
We're adding something to the dish, and
then we're deleting something
from the dish, and this is great.
And then actually just to end take this
one too, there's another filter here that
will take care of that and then finally
hide form, doesn't do anything.
And then mounted, we have no, there's
nothing really to do there at this point.
So okay, that is the solution for
the exercise that we just went through.
You might have noticed that I'm typing
tig instead of git, this is not a typo.
This is actually an extension
that is built to await take git.
There we go.
So it's basically a text interface for
git.
So basically, you'll notice that
rather than doing like git status and
seeing what's available and then having
to be like git add src and component,
you know having to figure
that out which takes a while.
Tig status gives me like
a basically a little UI to be like,
actually I forgot they
were already staged.
But you can see that can actually see
what stages different files are in, and
it's easy to individually
select it with my keyboard.
I won't dive into how to use this, but in
case you wanna look into it, just a little
bit of quality life improvement that I
like to use for my command line kit.
So this is jumping ahead a little bit,
but I don't wanna lose
the context on this question.
So the question here from Daniel in
the chat is around the idea of using
generics in TypeScript along the extend.
So, I wanna show you how
things used to look.
Basically how you used to actually use
TypeScript on view to what you did as like
view extend thing.
And what it basically allowed you to do
is like define a bunch of different like
properties on it.
So if we zoom in on this,
you'll see that it's like data methods.
And so interface again, for
those who haven't used text before,
think of it as a different way
to define objects in TypeScript.
That's all you need to know right now.
There's a lot of argument between
which one you should use.
Just think of another an alias for
type for now.
And so this allows you to
create like generic types, so
that like the concept of generics and
type is a messy topic.
In my opinion, and I think it's where
a lot of you'll actually get messed up.
Because it's one thing to
annotate what you intend to do,
it's another thing to abstract
it into generic concepts.
Oftentimes when you look at TypeScript
generics, you'll notice that whenever you
see single letters in TypeScript stuff,
that's when you basically they're using
generics, because they're
basically placeholder variables.
Where I will be very explicit.
We're not covering that in this because,
I do think, it tends to dive
just a little too far for people when
they're getting started with TypeScript.
Most people can just use the straight
annotation, and that will already do
wonders for helping them just document
their code a little bit better.
But for
those that are interested in TypeScript,
I don't wanna leave y'all behind too.
And so just so you know, rather than
having an extend, the question here is in
view three with a defined component,
where does it go from here?
There is a great blog post here,
where he talks about how it works.
And so basically,
you can see here for those wondering,
imagine you wanna have like a function
that generates a specific type
of component where it comes to
these types of every single time.
So these are generally called factories.
So you can see here that like
it's an input select, but
we want very specific things
to get attached to it.
And so there is a way where basically,
you can define a component
that does take these generic.
You see these ts here, so
you can define it, pass it in.
There is a way for it to happen.
So if you understand what generics are
you're interested in this I will make sure
that this is added as a resource.
Okay, so now that we've had like the core
functionality of options API sort of
taken care of, we're gonna start moving
our way now into composition API.